A United Nations report has found that extreme weather interrupted the schooling of at least 242 million children last year.

The weather included severe events such as heatwaves, cyclones and extreme dryness and flooding, the U.

N.’s Children’s Fund (UNICEF) said.

Students in 85 nations were affected.

UNICEF said weather-related interruptions amounted to one in seven school-aged children across the world being kept out of class at some point during 2024.

The report also noted that some countries said that hundreds of their schools were destroyed by weather.

Nations in Asia and sub-Saharan Africa were hit especially hard.

But the report said other parts of the world also experienced problems.

The report noted that heavy rains and flooding near the end of 2024 disrupted school for more than 900,000 children in Italy.

And in Spain, thousands of students had their classes canceled because of severe flooding.

More than 118 million children had their schooling interrupted in April alone, the report said.

Those interruptions were linked to heatwaves in parts of the Middle East and Asia.

School was interrupted because temperatures rose above 40 degrees Celsius.

Around 74 percent of the children affected in 2024 were in middle- and low-income countries, the report said.

UNICEF said this demonstrates how climate extremes continue to have a damaging effect on the world’s poorest countries.

In Pakistan, flooding ruined more than 400 schools in April.

And Afghanistan experienced heatwaves followed by severe flooding that destroyed more than 110 schools in May.

Months of drought in southern Africa threatened schooling for millions of children, the report added.

More recently, the French territory of Mayotte in the Indian Ocean off Africa was left in ruins by Cyclone Chido in December.

Cyclone Chido also destroyed more than 330 schools and three education departments in Mozambique.

The U.

N. children’s agency report stated that the world's schools and education systems “are largely ill-equipped” to deal with the effects of extreme weather.

I’m Bryan Lynn.

The Associated Press reported this story.

Bryan Lynn adapted the report for VOA Learning English.
