Many English learners can improve their pronunciation by listening carefully to native English speakers and trying to match the up-and-down movement of their sentences.

That is the opinion of Marla Yoshida, an English as a Foreign Language teacher at the University of California, Irvine.

Yoshida wants English learners to look for details that are important to native speakers.

These details are not only sounds, she notes.

Native speakers also communicate by using pauses, and by saying some words more forcefully than others.

As a result, native speakers might not understand an English learner even if the learner pronounces sounds correctly.

Yoshida says that English learners often study pronunciation by listening and repeating something from a recording.

Yoshida says that English learners need to do more than listen and repeat in order to improve their pronunciation:

The problem with listen and repeat, says Yoshida, is that when people repeat, they are often not trying to sound like the other person.

“You think that when students are repeating after the teacher, or whatever, they're trying to sound exactly like that person, but they're not.

You have to try to get past that filter and hear all of the details that are important to someone else.

What details should you try to copy when you listen to an English speaker?

Among others, the important details include pauses or breaths, which words to emphasize -- or give special attention to, and intonation – the up and down movement of your voice as you speak.

English speakers, in particular, use a broad range of up and down movements in their voices.

These movements can be difficult for English learners to recognize and understand.

Native English speakers might have difficulty understanding English learners when learners use a narrow range of their voice.

In other words, native speakers have fewer vocal restrictions when they are speaking.

English learners also may use intonation patterns that are different from those in Standard English.

Studying how native speakers use intonation will help English learners better understand what native speakers do with their voices.

Practical tips:

If English learners want to start improving their pronunciation, Yoshida suggests that they do an activity called shadowing.

Here is a short example of what a shadowing activity could look like.

The example comes from Martha Kolln's book Rhetorical Grammar\*:

Listen to the sentence several times.

Then try to mark the intonation of the voice.

Listen for emphasized words.

In the sentence, you can hear that some syllables are emphasized, while others are not.

Overall, the voice falls after important syllables, notably at the end of the sentence.

English sentences often emphasize words at the end of a sentence – the place where you usually find new information.

The next time you are reading and listening to a story, try to mark the patterns of intonation that you hear.

Remember, all our stories have audio, so you can print the story and do a shadowing exercise while listening to the story.

Give shadowing a try, and let us know how it works for you!

I'm John Russell.

John Russell wrote this lesson for VOA Learning English.

George Grow and Kelly Jean Kelly were the editors.

Tim Murphey, a teacher in Japan, has a video of students doing shadowing and summarizing.

You can watch it on YouTube here:

We want to hear from you.

Write to us in the Comments section, and post on our Facebook page.
