From VOA Learning English, this is the Health & Lifestyle report.

New guidelines have been issued in the United States for preventing stroke – the nation’s 4th biggest killer.

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says that in 2023, stroke was the fourth leading cause of death in the United States.

An estimated half a million people suffer strokes in the U.S. each year.

But the CDC notes that up to 80 percent of strokes could be prevented with better nutrition and exercise, along with improved risk identification.

A stroke happens when blood flow to part of the brain is blocked or if a blood vessel in the brain breaks open, or bursts.

The event keeps oxygen from getting to the brain.

This can result in the person having difficulty thinking, talking and walking.

In some cases, a stroke can even cause death.

Stroke is a major health problem across the world.

On its website, the World Stroke Organization says the condition is a leading cause of death and disability worldwide.

Over 100 million people worldwide have suffered a stroke.

It is estimated that 25 percent of adults over 25 will have a stroke during their lifetime.

The new guidelines on stroke prevention came from the American Stroke Association.

They are the first to be issued in 10 years.

The advice includes suggestions for people and doctors and are based on improved information about who has strokes and why.

The guidelines also include new drugs that can help reduce risk.

Health researchers say the best way to reduce the risk of stroke is the same as reducing risks for many other conditions.

These include eating a healthy diet, moving the body often and not smoking.

Here is what to know about stroke and the newly issued guidelines:

Experts say eating healthy can help control possible stroke risks.

The goal is to prevent or reduce high cholesterol, high blood sugar and obesity, the condition of being extremely overweight.

The advice urges people to choose foods in the so-called Mediterranean diet.

These include fruits, vegetables, whole grains and olive oil.

Eating these foods can help keep cholesterol levels down.

Red meat should be limited, along with saturated fats.

Additional protein can come from beans, nuts, poultry and seafood.

Highly processed foods and drinks with a lot of added sugar should also be avoided.

Getting up and walking around for at least 10 minutes a day can greatly reduce a person’s stroke risk, said Dr. Cheryl Bushnell.

She is a neurologist at Wake Forest University School of Medicine in North Carolina.

Bushnell was part of the group that came up with the new guidelines.

She said regular exercise can help reduce blood pressure, a major risk factor for stroke.

However, health experts say more movement is better.

The stroke association suggests at least 150 minutes of moderate aerobic or 75 minutes of vigorous exercise activity every week.

Such exercise could include going to the gym, taking a walk or running.

People can also use exercise machines at home, dance or play a sport.

The guidelines include a new group of drugs that have been proven to help people lose weight.

The drugs – designed for people with obesity or diabetes – had not been approved when past guidelines were issued.

But the advice now suggests doctors consider these drugs for patients at risk for stroke.

These include versions sold under the names Ozempic, Wegovy, Mounjaro, and Zepbound,.

The new guidelines also help doctors identify people who might be at higher risk for stroke.

For the first time, the advice suggests doctors screen patients for other risk factors.

They could include gender or non-medical factors such as economic issues or the availability of quality health care.

The new guidelines also suggest that doctors screen for conditions that may increase a woman’s risk for stroke.

These could include high blood pressure during pregnancy or early menopause.

Three of the most common stroke signs include face weakness, arm weakness and difficulty speaking.

Also, time is important when a person suffers a stroke.

Brain damage can happen quickly, but it can be limited if a stroke is treated quickly.

Stroke experts have created an acronym to help people remember: FAST -- F for face, A for arm, S for speech, and T for time.

If you think you or a loved one may be having a stroke, call the emergency response number in your area immediately.

And that’s the Health & Lifestyle report.

I’m Anna Matteo.

And I’m Bryan Lynn.

Kenya Hunter reported this story for the Associated Press.

Anna Matteo adapted it for VOA Learning English.
