International visitors to Israel used to visit Ein Gedi, a popular beach on the Dead Sea.

The Dead Sea is the place on Earth’s surface that is farthest below sea level.

Now, the beautiful desert area is in ruins beside the shrinking, salty lake.

The beach has been closed to the public for five years, mainly because of the appearance of dangerous holes in the ground.

These holes, known as sinkholes, are caused by the collapse of the surface layer.

The beach has been closed because the drop in the sea's level has made it difficult to reach its waters.

These environmental changes are not new.

The Dead Sea, where Israeli, Jordanian and Palestinian territory meet, has been dying for years.

With the current conflict in the Middle East, efforts to deal with the environmental problem have disappeared too.

Nadav Tal of the Israel office of Eco Peace, a non-profit group, told the French News Agency (AFP), "Regional cooperation is the key... to saving the Dead Sea." Tal added: "Because we are living in a conflict area, there is an obstacle." Tal described how the sea has been declining more than one meter per year since the 1960s.

The evaporation of the salty waters takes place partly because temperatures reach up to 50 degrees Celsius in the summer.

The sea has also been affected by years of increasing water usage from the sea's main source, the Jordan River, and other smaller waterways which begin in Lebanon and Syria.

Efforts to deal with the Dead Sea disaster include past agreements signed by Israel and Jordan.

But the wars taking place in Gaza and beyond have brought tensions to an all-time high.

As a result, cross-border environmental issues are no longer getting attention.

Back at the Dead Sea, 40-year-old bus driver Benny is at a place where people can still visit.

Benny was getting some winter sun at one of the warm sinkhole pools.

I’m John Russell.

Ruth Eglash reported this story for Agence France-Presse (AFP).

John Russell adapted it for VOA Learning English.
