A popular kind of sausage stand in Vienna, Austria has been recognized by the United Nations for its cultural value.

The street stands – called “Würstelstands” in German – are a famous part of the Austrian capital’s history.

In addition to selling food, they are known for being a place where many different kinds of people can come together to eat and spend social time.

UNESCO is the United Nations’ Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.

It seeks to recognize and help save cultural treasures and traditions around the world.

Vienna’s Würstelstands were recently added to a list of the country’s “intangible cultural heritage.” The Austrian UNESCO Commission oversees the list.

Among other things on the list are Vienna’s traditional wine establishments – called “Heurigen” – which were recognized in 2019.

In addition, the city’s famous coffee house culture was honored in 2011.

The Associated Press reports the history of Würstelstands goes back generations.

And they are known for much more than the tasty sausages they serve.

They have been bringing people of many different backgrounds together for many years.

The stands have also developed some of their own terms.

Josef Bitzinger runs the Bitzinger Würstelstand.

He told the AP that sausage stands have a long history in Vienna." His stand enjoys a favorable spot, next to the city’s Albertina museum and just behind the Vienna State Opera.

“Originally it was just a bucket with hot water in which the sausages used to swim," Bitzinger said. He added that the stands began with small vehicles pulled by dogs or horses. Later, they were transported by cars or big trucks.

The tradition of Würstelstand goes back to the pre-World War I days of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.

At that time, former soldiers set up movable cooking shops to make a living.

The city’s longest-serving stand in a fixed spot is Würstelstand Leo.

It has been serving up sausages since 1928.

The stands started to develop quickly in 1969, when the government decided to begin approving fixed stands.

Vienna’s mayor, Michael Ludwig, said he thinks the UNESCO recognition “honors the tradition, the hospitality and the diversity of our city.” He added that the stands remain a big part of the city’s culture.

I’m Bryan Lynn.

The Associated Press reported this story.

Bryan Lynn adapted the report for VOA Learning English.
