From VOA Learning English, this is the Education Report.

Pronouncing English can be difficult.

One reason is because English has some difficult sounds that are – unfortunately for English learners – very common.

But English learners can improve their pronunciation by using simple, everyday objects.

These objects include candy, a pencil, and a mirror.

What are some of these common difficult sounds?

Well, you have already heard or read them several times in this story.

When you say "this," your voice box moves.

When you say "thing," air moves freely through your throat.

Marla Yoshida teaches English as a foreign language at the University of California, Irvine.

She notes how strange these sounds are:

Sometimes, “th” sounds are difficult for English learners to make because saying them seems impolite, or rude.

All cultures have rules about polite ways to speak to each other.

When speaking English, learners may need to break some of the rules of politeness they use in their native language.

Tamara Jones, a program coordinator at the English Language Center at Howard Community College, explains.

She tells why English learners might feel uncomfortable making the "th" (/ð/) and "th" (/θ/) sounds:

So how can English learners teach their tongues to pronounce "th" (/ð/) and "th" (/θ/) correctly?

Tamara Jones recommends a tasty, fun way to get in the habit of sticking your tongue between your teeth: using a lollipop.

Other sounds in English may not be as strange as "th" (/ð/) or "th" (/θ/), but they can still be difficult to pronounce.

One example is the "er" (ɚ) sound.

English speakers often use “–er” (ɚ) when they make comparisons.

Here is an example of an “–er” (ɚ) sound in a popular song by Britney Spears:

Stronger than yesterday Now it’s nothing but my way My loneliness ain’t killing me no more I’m stronger

Tamara Jones at Howard Community College says many English learners have problems clearly pronouncing the "-er" (ɚ) sound.

Part of the difficulty is finding the right tongue placement.

To practice using the tongue correctly, Jones recommends that English learners use a pencil.

"But one little trick that students might find useful is to put a pencil in their mouth lengthwise. So they're biting down on the pencil, and the pencil is sticking out of both sides of their mouth.

"And then saying the sound "-er" (ɚ)​. When they say the "er" (ɚ) sound, their tongue should not touch the pencil. It should be down, under, or around the pencil, but it shouldn't touch the pencil.

Consonant sounds are not the only common difficult sounds for English learners.

Vowel sounds are often difficult, too.

Marla Yoshida, the teacher at the University of California, Irvine, points out that English has many vowel sounds.

She says that English dialects can include between 13 and 15 vowel sounds.

By comparison, some languages, such as Japanese and Spanish, have only five vowel sounds.

Two of the hardest challenges for English learners are pronouncing the "i" (ɪ) and "ee" (iː) vowel sounds.

Pretend that you owe me nothing And all the world is green We can bring back the old days again When all the world is green

Clearly pronouncing common but difficult sounds can help you communicate better in English.

Improving your pronunciation will take time and hard work, but a few basic objects will help.

As you learned in the previous Education Tips story, pronouncing individual sounds correctly is only part of the pronunciation puzzle.

Future Education Tips stories will give you more suggestions for how to improve your pronunciation.

I'm John Russell.

John Russell wrote this story for VOA Learning English.

Kelly J Kelly was the editor.

Did this method help you?

What other things do you do to improve your pronunciation?

Let us know in the Comments section or on our Facebook page.
