NASA says a spacecraft that has been examining the sun’s outermost atmosphere recently got closer to our Earth’s star than any past explorer has.

The American space agency announced its Parker Solar Probe passed within 6.1 million kilometers of the sun’s outer corona on December 24.

Mission leaders established communication with the spacecraft after the operation and said the orbiter was safe.

NASA launched the Parker Solar Probe in August 2018.

Its mission is to study the sun’s powerful corona and solar wind.

Solar wind is created by a continuous flow of charged particles, called plasma, into space from the corona.

In 2021, NASA announced the orbiter had passed into the solar atmosphere for the first time.

Researchers said at the time, the spacecraft had successfully “touched” the sun.

Parker was believed to be about 13 million kilometers from the center of the sun when it crossed over into the sun’s outer atmosphere.

In a statement, NASA’s Associate Administrator Nicky Fox praised the spacecraft’s latest pass-by of the sun.

“Flying this close to the sun is a historic moment in humanity’s first mission to a star,” she said.

Fox leads the agency’s Science Mission Directorate at NASA Headquarters in Washington, D.

C.

NASA’s statement noted the agency’s earlier preparation and operations were all leading up to the latest mission.

To help it get into the right position, the Parker Solar Probe received assistance from several flybys of the planet Venus.

The last flyby happened on November 6, 2024.

Developers of the spacecraft say it was built with a shield made with carbon material to protect it from the extreme heat released by the sun’s corona.

The shield was designed to survive temperatures reaching 1,400 degrees Celsius.

NASA says the data-gathering instruments are placed behind the shield.

Dr. Joseph Westlake is director of NASA’s Heliophysics Division, the part of the agency that studies the sun.

Westlake noted that his team is preparing for more flybys in the future and hopes to capture more valuable data.

Already, flybys of Venus have gathered information about the natural radio waves coming from Venus.

In 2023, scientists announced they had learned new information about solar wind from data collected by Parker.

Data showed that solar wind can reach speeds up to 1.6 million kilometers per hour.

Solar wind forms a large magnetic barrier known as the heliosphere.

It protects Earth and other planets from the continuous flow of high-energy particles from the sun’s corona.

I’m Bryan Lynn.

Bryan Lynn wrote this story for VOA Learning English, based on reports from The Associated Press, Agence France-Presse and NASA.
