Disabled researchers often face barriers while carrying out their work.

So some scientists with disabilities are seeking to increase attention about the problem and come up with workable solutions.

Anita Marshall is a geologist with the University of Florida.

She recently told The Associated Press (AP) that while she faces some limitations, it does not mean she cannot do her job.

“Just because you can’t do it like someone else doesn’t mean you can’t do it,” she said.

Marshall recently led an outing of disabled researchers to a natural lake in Southern California’s San Bernadino National Forest.

The group included scientists and students with disabilities related to sight, hearing and mobility.

They visited Lost Lake, which sits along the area’s San Andreas Fault.

The fault contains two tectonic plates that can cause earthquakes.

The trip was organized by Marshall’s group, called the International Association for Geoscience Diversity.

It aims to demonstrate the difficulties, or challenges, disabled researchers often face.

Other groups also aim to improve access to field and laboratory work so those with disabilities feel welcome and stay.

Taormina Lepore is a Western Michigan University paleontologist who went on the trip.

She told the AP that one problem is that many scientists seem to value a single, traditional way of doing their work.

This makes it more difficult to get changes for disabled researchers.

On the trip to Lost Lake, everyone got to see the lake even if they could not get there physically.

Some attendees saw the surroundings on video taken by a drone.

The National Science Foundation said in 2021 that disabled people make up about three percent of the science, technology, engineering, and math workforce.

Scientists with disabilities say the low percentage is partly because labs, classrooms and field areas are not designed for disabled individuals.

Mark Leddy used to oversee disability-related grants for the National Science Foundation.

He noted that some students and faculty are still told they cannot work in a lab or do research safely.

The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 does set rules for new buildings and labs.

These include requiring ramps and walkways that can be used by people in wheelchairs.

But making changes to older labs can be costly and difficult.

Leddy said researchers with disabilities are invaluable because of their life experiences.

They have to come up with creative ways to get past barriers in their lives — a problem-solving skill that is needed in a lab.

Jennifer Piatek is a professor of Earth and Space Sciences at Central Connecticut State University.

She uses a wheelchair but was able to see through drone video.

As a doctoral student, Marshall went on field trips with other students.

But she often had to wait in the car because the organizers had not thought about her disabilities.

Marshall wants things to be different for the next generation of scientists.

“The whole point of these little day trips is to just plant that seed out there…that there’s another way forward,” she said.

I’m Mario Ritter Jr. And I'm Caty Weaver.

Adithi Ramakrishnan reported this story for the Associated Press.

Mario Ritter, Jr. adapted it for VOA Learning English.
