Strong writing is one of the most important skills for any college student.

Many non-native English speakers have no idea what professors in the U.S. expect from a college paper.

A college paper is a piece of writing than can be as long as 20 or more pages.

Even native English-speaking college students struggle with how to succeed with such a difficult responsibility.

Deborah Dessaso is the Writing Resource Coordinator at the University of the District of Columbia.

Dessaso helps students reach the level of writing that college professors expect.

She says college writing is very different from what many students experience earlier in their education.

A credible source provides verifiable information from experts.

This includes books, interviews, newspapers or studies.

Most U.S. high schools teach students how to write five paragraph essays.

Students are often unprepared for the amount of research they have to do for a college paper.

Nabila Hijazi is one of the assistant directors of the University of Maryland Writing Center.

Hijazi is also an international student from Syria in the second year of her PhD program in English studies.

She says the language barrier is not the biggest problem for students whose first language is not English.

In a traditional paper, the first paragraph often contains the thesis statement.

This statement is a one-sentence summary of the paper's main argument.

The first paragraph of a college paper, or any paper, is usually the most challenging.

The first paragraph is also the most important because it will guide the structure and show the voice of the entire paper.

But not every type of writing is the same.

There are also case studies and field reports in addition to traditional papers.

Dessaso says that the best option for a student who wants improve their writing is to read.

Reading examples of the type of paper your professor expects you to write can be very helpful.

Professors sometimes provide examples.

You can also search the Internet for examples of papers about similar topics.

But, you should never copy another person's work.

Professors will find out if the work is copied and you will get in a lot of trouble.

Hijazi adds that writing a paper takes time.

Students should let other students read their work and listen to criticism.

College graduates around the world will tell you they have all been in this situation.

It is the middle of the night.

Your paper is due in eight hours and you have no idea what to write.

Let's imagine that your professor tells you to write a five-page paper on this topic:

Here are four examples of how to begin writing on this topic:

2.

Use a Quote – "All the SAT measures is how well you take the SAT. It does not show how smart a person you are," wrote blogger Amanda Chan.

Chan is one of a growing number of people who argues that SAT is unfair.

The next time you have to write a paper, remember that planning is very important.

Think about what you are going to write before you start writing.

Think about all the information you need to include and how you will present it.

If the ideas still are not coming, read your class materials again with these four methods in mind.

Sooner or later, an idea will come.

I'm Pete Musto.

Adam Brock first wrote about this topic for the Learning English blog.

Pete Musto updated and added to the story.

Kathleen Struck was the editor.

Now it's your turn.

What is some writing advice teachers or other students have given you?

In your opinion, what is the most difficult part of writing a paper?

Let us know in the comments sections or on our Facebook page.
