Facebook parent company Meta recently announced changes to the way it tries to identify misinformation and harmful material published on its social media services.

Zuckerberg said the moderation system Meta had built needed to be “complex” to examine huge amounts of content in search of material that violated company policies.

The new method turns over content moderation duties to a “Community Notes” system.

The company said this system aims to “empower the community” to decide whether content is acceptable or needs further examination.

The changes will be effective for Meta’s Facebook, Instagram and Threads services.

Meta said the new system would become available first to U.S. users in the coming months.

Meta’s former moderation system involved the use of independent, third-party fact-checking organizations.

Many of these were large media companies or news agencies.

The efforts included digital tools as well as human workers to fact-check content and identify false, inappropriate or harmful material.

Meta’s new Community Notes system is similar to the method used by the social media service X.

A statement by Meta said changes to this system will have to be made by users, not anyone from the company.

Meta said, “Just like they do on X, Community Notes will require agreement between people with a range of perspectives to help prevent biased ratings.” The company also invited any users to register to be among the first to try out the system.

Milijana Rogač is executive editor of the Serbian fact-checking outlet Istinomer.

She told Reuters news agency that she thinks Meta's decision would end up hurting the media industry.

Rogač noted that research suggests that many citizens use Meta services as their main source for information.

Removing independent fact-checkers “further hinders access to accurate information and news," Rogač said.

Not a lot of research has been done on how effective Community Notes systems are.

But one effort carried out by the University of California and Johns Hopkins University found in 2024 that community notes entered on X for COVID-19 misinformation were accurate.

The research showed the notes used both moderate and high-quality sources and were attached to widely read posts.

However, the number of people taking part in that study was small.

Also, the effects the system had on users' opinions and behavior is unknown.

A 2023 study, from the Journal of Online Trust and Safety, said it was harder for users to agree when they examined content related to political issues.

I’m Bryan Lynn.

Bryan Lynn wrote this story, based on reports from Meta, The Associated Press and Reuters.
