From VOA Learning English, this is the Education Report.

Many English learners work hard to improve their pronunciation skills.

If you are not making as much progress as you'd hoped, you are not alone.

You may be surprised to know that a number of teachers do not know how to effectively teach this skill.

Judy Gilbert is a pronunciation expert.

She has written many books on the subject.

A few years ago, Gilbert gave a talk at the New School, a private university in New York City.

She explained that, for the past 50 years, most English language teachers have not been trained to teach pronunciation.

For years, teachers mainly demonstrated the pronunciation of individual sounds, such as the "wh" sound in the word "what." But individual sounds are only one part of pronunciation, as we noted in an earlier Education Tips story.

Other elements include rhythm, intonation, and stress – the loudness you give to part or all of a word or words.

These qualities together make up the system of spoken English.

In everyday speech, some words and sounds are almost always pronounced fully and clearly, while others are reduced and less clear.

William Stout teaches English as Foreign Language at Georgetown University in Washington, D.

C.

He has been leading pronunciation workshops for 10 years.

He says the goal in improving your pronunciation should be communicating to be easily understood, not removing your accent, which is often difficult or impossible.

Stout says one of the most important things you can do to improve your pronunciation is to learn how to listen to English effectively.

And, a big part of doing this is to recognize and understand reduced English words when you hear them.

Stout says his pronunciation workshops mainly center on training his students' ears to listen for these things.

And you can hear how some words join together to sound almost like one word.

For example, the words "get him" sound like "geddum." The letter "h" in "him" disappears and the vowel sound in that word is shortened.

And the letter "t" in "get" changes to a "d" sound.

In everyday speech, some words are almost always reduced.

These words can include pronouns, helping verbs (such as "can" or "do"), conjunctions, articles and prepositions.

Other parts of speech are almost always pronounced clearly, such as nouns, verbs, adjectives and adverbs.

Stout says that knowing these rules can help you train your ears more effectively.

And, this can help you reproduce the sounds of everyday English speech so that you are more easily understood.

Stout enjoys using songs and song-like material in his classes.

These things reproduce the natural rhythm, intonation, and stress of conversational English.

Listening to songs, says Stout, can help speed up your progress.

In class, he plays a song or other example of natural speech, and asks students to write down what they hear.

Then, the class talks about which words were reduced and how.

Listen for reduced words and sounds in this limerick:

Who ground his false teeth ‘til he bent them.

Did you notice the reductions?

There are many.

One example is the dropped "h" in the pronouns "his," "him" and "he." Note that the word "'til" means "until" and "'cuz" means "because." In English conversation, Americans often shorten the words just as the limerick does.

Stout also uses jazz chants, a method popularized by book author and songwriter Carolyn Graham.

Listen for the stressed words in this jazz chant:

He lives near the bank.

He works at the bank.

He works all day and he works all night.

It's a bank.

It's a bank.

It's a great, big bank.

Here are two suggestions for using these methods.

William Stout says as you listen to fast-paced English in songs, films, and other natural speech, try to notice all of the words that are reduced.

Then….

Stout advises that you let go of the fear of not sounding like "yourself" when you're practicing English conversation.

And again, improving your pronunciation is not about completely removing your accent.

Remember, the goal is to be understood – not to sound like a native English speaker.

I'm Phil Dierking.

And I'm Alice Bryant.

Alice Bryant wrote this story for Learning English.

George Grow was the editor.
