A new museum of laughter in Croatia is offering to help people deal with the negativity of modern life.

Visitors to the HaHaHouse in the Croatian capital Zagreb walk into a little cloud of white smoke when they step inside.

Its purpose is to blow away their worries before they climb into a "giant washing machine".

Then they move down a twisting slide into a space filled with little white balls where their trip to a happier place starts.

Golubic said a picture of her when she was seven-year-old inspired her.

“I was constantly joking as a kid," she added.

Visitors press a button to be "disinfected from negativity" as soon as they step inside the museum, which has eight interactive zones, or areas.

One has rubber chickens singing cheerfully.

They sing songs like ABBA's "Dancing Queen." There is a karaoke room with distorted voices and a "Sumo Arena" for wrestling in puffed up clothes.

There is also some serious history of humor from ancient to modern times told through theatre, film or the internet.

The museum also explains different kinds of humor.

These include word play, slapstick, dark humor and satire.

Golubic said the HaHaHouse is popular with everyone from small children to older people.

Adults say it is a good excuse to act like a child.

"All those who still feel a bit of childish joy and embrace their inner child, will recharge themselves," she said.

Retiree Bruno Dadic told AFP he was pleased by his visit "as there is never enough humor in life.

"Laughter is a medicine for the soul," he said.

Aleksandar Suka celebrated his fifth birthday with a visit.

Visiting with his mother, the little boy said he liked lying on the "Bed of Nails" since they tickled him.

Singer Zorica Bucic, from the coastal town of Split, said the museum was just right for our times.

"Entering here is like entering childhood, being relieved of all problems,” she said. Bucic added that if you could come to museum often, you would not need to visit a psychologist.

Psychologist Petar Kraljevic told AFP that laughter is a kind of weapon which gives people strength to face their problems.

He said that if doctors could advise their patients to have "three hours of laughter” a day, people would feel much better.

I’m John Russell.

Lajla Veselica reported this story for Agence-France Press.

Jill Robbins adapted it for Learning English.
