Scientists say the threat of a large space rock striking the Earth in 2032 has increased.

Recent calculations suggest there is a small chance - perhaps around 1 to 3 percent - the space rock 2024 YR4 will hit Earth in 2032.

This also means there is around a 97 to 99 percent chance it will safely pass our planet in that year.

The odds of a strike will likely continue to go up and down as the asteroid’s path around the sun is better understood.

And scientists say there is a good chance the risk will drop to zero.

NASA and the European Space Agency’s Webb Space Telescope will observe this near-Earth asteroid in March before the object becomes impossible to see.

Once that happens, scientists will have to wait until 2028 when it passes our way again.

Asteroids are space rocks orbiting the sun.

Asteroids are much smaller than planets.

Scientists believe they are the leftovers from the solar system’s formation 4.6 billion years ago.

There are millions of asteroids orbiting the sun between Mars and Jupiter.

That area is known as the main asteroid belt.

The asteroids sometimes get pushed out of the belt and can end up elsewhere.

A telescope in Chile discovered the asteroid 2024 YR4 in late December.

It is estimated to measure between 40 and 90 meters across.

NASA said observations by the Webb space telescope should provide a more exact measurement.

Until scientists have a better understanding of the asteroid’s path around the sun, they warned that the odds will continue to change — and quite possibly fall to zero.

In 2021, NASA said another possibly worrisome asteroid, Apophis, did not present a risk to Earth.

NASA made the announcement after additional telescope observations ruled out any chance of it hitting Earth in 2068.

Experts say it is too soon to worry about 2024 YR4.

NASA already has some experience moving an asteroid.

The space agency’s Dart spacecraft hit a harmless asteroid in 2022.

This was the first planetary defense test of its kind, changing the asteroid’s orbit around its larger companion asteroid.

I’m John Russell.

Marcia Dunn reported this story for the Associated Press.

John Russell adapted it for VOA Learning English.
