The hug between the two women lasted a long time.

An 85-year-old woman put her arms around a younger woman she had not seen for months.

She asked her a series of questions in a song-like way.

How are you?

How is your husband?

How are the kids?

How are your cows?

Are you on good terms with your neighbors?

Prudencienne Namukobwa stopped the song to permit the younger woman to answer.

The pattern is familiar to her because she has been doing it for many years.

The two women were performing a greeting of their ancestors.

A group of neighbors watched with surprise.

Many were seeing their first performance of the traditional form of musical greeting, known to Burundians as akazehe.

It is performed only by women.

Akazehe is becoming less common.

But cultural officials, teachers and others say the greeting is worth keeping.

During disease outbreaks, public health officials urged people to limit close contact.

Such recommendations affected the greeting.

Among young people in Burundi, it is hard to find those who know what akazehe means.

It is even harder to find someone who can perform it.

Some experts have noted akazehe could help lead to a feeling of unity in Burundi.

The country is now largely peaceful following a period of deadly civil war and political unrest.

Namukobwa lives in Ngozi a hilly province in Burundi's north.

On a recent morning, she was sitting on a mat outside when she saw Nzeyimana, the visiting daughter of a former neighbor.

She rose and welcomed the woman as if she were her own daughter.

Isaac Nikobiba is an anthropologist in Bujumbura.

He said a custom such as akazehe should be kept at all costs because of its role in protecting families.

Among communities that practice it, women could tell elder women about any problems at home.

That could bring support from the extended family, he said.

Nikobiba said the threat to akazehe is part of other effects of modernization.

Nikobiba added that during that greeting, the young woman could report any problems.

Support from elders would help them develop better mental health for the young family, he said.

Floride Ntakirutimana was among the small group of women who gathered to watch Namukobwa greeting Nzeyimana.

She said she grew up in a farming community where no mother could perform akazehe.

She only heard of it through radio programs.

I’m Jill Robbins.

Rodney Muhumuza and Gaspard Maheburwa reported this story for the Associated Press.

Jill Robbins adapted it for Learning English.
