For some, yoga is an exercise centered on mindful breathing and slow movement.

For others, it is a series of difficult body movements and positioning designed to improve health and fitness.

Still others consider yoga a spiritual exercise.

And there are many people for whom yoga is a combination of all or some of these things.

So, yoga takes many different forms around the world.

All kinds of yoga involve positions known as poses (asanas).

But the positions and training can differ even under yoga methods, or styles, of the same name, including hatha, vinyasa, Iyengar and others.

“The best is the one that works for you,” said Tim Senesi, who has been teaching yoga in Orange County, California, for 22 years.

“There are many different paths leading toward the same aim,” he added.

Hatha, meaning “force,” describes any kind of yoga class involving asanas.

A sun salutation, for example, is an important series of 12 asanas that begin many kinds of yoga classes.

Training under the hatha name, however, is usually gentler than others and more centered on breathing exercises, called pranayama.

Poses are held for a few breaths and students usually move more slowly.

Hatha can be good for beginners who are looking to relax while improving flexibility and balance.

Another style, yin, pays even more attention to recovery by working to stretch the muscles’ connective tissue.

Students hold poses for 5 minutes or more, permitting the body to settle into a pose rather than pushing it.

A more difficult, flowing form of yoga is known as vinyasa.

It mixes movement with breath over a series of asanas.

Some higher-level vinyasa classes move at a rate of one movement per breath.

In the United States, these classes are often called Flow or Power yoga.

They can be good for people who are more athletic.

Still, teachers suggest that even athletic students start with a beginner level.

“I wouldn’t really encourage them to start in a higher level vinyasa flow class because they’re not going to have the foundation to move safely through that,” said Anne Van Valkenburg, of Lanai, Hawaii.

She has been training yoga teachers in a mix of methods for 18 years.

Ashtanga yoga is similar to vinyasa.

However, ashtanga involves a set series of poses that students repeat day after day, often going at their own speed.

As students get stronger and more skilled, they move up to a higher series with more difficult poses.

Iyengar style involves the same poses as vinyasa, but classes usually move at a slower pace.

However, the poses are not necessarily easier.

Iyengar yoga pays special attention to carefully moving or aligning parts of the body.

Poses are held for longer and students often use supportive equipment during the exercise.

Iyengar is especially good for people recovering from injuries.

It can also be a good fit for physically active people who want to get the basics of yoga before moving into different styles.

These days, teachers often mix different yoga methods in a single class.

And many classes are not named under any traditional method.

The AP suggests that if you are interested in starting to practice yoga, you should look for a beginner series.

But if you cannot find one that is right, do not worry.

Most teachers are happy to have beginners in their classes and will alter the training to meet the needs of students new to yoga.

Most of all, try a few classes until you find the method or teacher who is a good fit for you.

I’m John Russell.

Albert Stumm reported on this story for the Associated Press.

John Russell adapted it for VOA Learning English.
