Nearly 200 people in Vienna, Austria, gathered recently to enjoy two fun activities at the same time.

They worked with needles and yarn.

And they watched a movie together called The Devil Wears Prada.

"It sounds a bit like a grandmother, but it's relaxing. And…what's wrong with letting the grandmother in us express herself," joked Austrian Alexander Koch.

He is a 28-year-old who crochets.

Knitting or crocheting while watching movies has gained popularity in Europe.

Luisa Palmer was one of the organizers of the event.

Palmer said that, during the COVID-19 pandemic, "A lot of people started knitting during the lockdown alone at home." Palmer launched the knitting evenings once a month at Votiv Kino, a place to watch movies in the center of the Austrian capital.

"Now we need to find ourselves…" in real life, the 30-year-old told the French News Agency (AFP) before the event.

People are knitting, eating, or even breastfeeding babies while watching a movie.

This movement is the latest attempt to add different things to the movie-watching experience, said Lisa Stolze.

She is a spokesperson for Votiv Kino, the movie house.

To avoid knitting mistakes, a soft light remains on during the movie.

This also helps to increase exchanges between the attendees.

Organizers based their event on similar ones in the United States, Northern Europe, Germany and France.

Since launching in December of 2024, the movie events in Vienna are usually full.

"I usually knit while watching movies or listening to podcasts at home, so movie theaters are the perfect place for this activity," said Kaja Vospernik.

She is a 23-year-old fashion student.

As the movie plays, the colorful projects take shape.

The film takes a back seat, meaning it is less important than the work of knitting or crocheting.

Everyone shows off their work.

Experienced knitters and crocheters help beginners learn new skills.

"You can come alone and knit in silence to relax. But if you are looking for company, this kind of event seems to me to be the right choice," said Judith Haslöwer.

She is another organizer of the event.

Palmer said, "Doing something with your ten fingers is still more rewarding…" than working at a computer all day.

She added that picking the right movie is also important.

Palmer likes to watch a good "cozy comedy” that she has already seen. She joked that it is best to avoid scary movies. They can make you jump causing you to lose your place in your knitting.

I’m Anna Matteo.

Kiyoko Metzler reported this story for AFP from Vienna, Austria.

Anna Matteo adapted it for VOA Learning English.
