Scientists say Europe’s Euclid space telescope has discovered a bright ring of light circling a nearby galaxy.

The observed light is known as an Einstein ring.

Researchers have estimated the ring encircles a galaxy 590 million light years away from Earth.

A light year is the distance light travels in a year – about 9.5 trillion kilometers.

Astronomers have long known about the galaxy where the ring was discovered.

So, they were surprised that the bright ring had not been identified before.

It was discovered in a well-studied galaxy called NGC 6505.

It is in the constellation – a group of stars – named Draco.

Einstein rings are rare.

They form when light from a more distant galaxy bends around a closer galaxy.

The nearer galaxy appears to have a circle of light, or a halo, around it.

The American space agency NASA explains that as light passes through a gravitational lens, “it may take different paths, producing multiple images of the same object.” In this way, gravity itself acts as a lens, magnifying and distorting space and time in a way that is similar to an optical lens like those in eyeglasses or contact lenses.

Gravitational lenses permit telescopes like Euclid to observe more distant and less-bright objects.

In the latest project, researchers from Germany’s Max Planck Institute for Astrophysics used data from Euclid to create a computer model to discover the Einstein ring.

The Euclid space telescope is operated by the European Space Agency (ESA).

In 2023, it launched on a six-year mission that ESA officials have said aims to study the mysteries of dark matter and dark energy across the universe.

Astronomers at the Max Planck Institute are leading the research.

In a statement, the organization said the first sign that the Einstein ring existed came during testing right after Euclid was deployed.

A team member, Bruno Altieri, was looking over early data collected by Euclid.

The scientists said the more distant galaxy involved in the method is about 4.4 billion light years away from Earth.

They noted that the more distant galaxy had never been observed before and does not have a name.

Altieri’s team recently reported the findings in a study in the publication Astronomy and Astrophysics.

O’Riordan said the team’s modeling operations were just the first step in studying the newly discovered Einstein ring.

He said the group plans to use the ring to also study “dark matter substructures” within the lensing galaxy.

I’m Bryan Lynn.

Bryan Lynn wrote this story for VOA Learning English, based on reports from The Associated Press, the Max Planck Institute, the European Space Agency and NASA.
