In the Education Tips series, education experts in the United States give you tips about how to improve your English skills.

This week, Suzanne Meyer, the assistant director at the English Language Institute at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, discusses question-asking and the development of critical thinking skills.

For VOA Learning English, this is the Education Report.

Suzanne Meyer, the assistant director of the English Language Institute at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, says that many students need to develop critical thinking skills.

In other words, students need to learn how to collect information, and then evaluate the information and apply it to a new context.

She says:

One way to develop critical thinking skills, Meyer says, is to teach students to be creative about the types of questions that they ask.

Meyer says that there are many benefits to using question-asking activities with English learners.

Question-asking activities help students to become better language learners.

She says:

Meyer also says that question-asking may help develop critical thinking skills by allowing for more interactions:

There are many strategies to improve question-asking and develop critical thinking skills.

One possible strategy, says Meyer, is to use question-asking patterns that start with concrete questions and move to abstract questions.

So, for example, if students were reading a new text, they would design a series of questions using three different steps.

If students follow these three steps, they have not only practiced creative ways to ask questions, they have also started practicing critical thinking.

Meyer gave an example of what this activity could look like:

​SOURCE: SUZANNE MEYER/Text is from Zwier, Lawrence J.

“Fat for Brains.” Inside Reading 2. 2nd ed.

Ed.

Cheryl Boyd Zimmerman.

Oxford: OUP, 2012.

In the activity, students read part of a story.

In this case, the story is about how different foods affect a person.

These questions, and other questions listed in the table, are examples of how to develop questions.

You should, of course, create your own questions!

Practical tips:

Meyer says that when teachers tell students which questions to answer, students are less likely to be creative about the types of questions that they ask.

So, practice developing your own questions!

Try making a list of questions that go from concrete to abstract, like the steps outlined above.

Check with your teacher to make sure that your grammar is correct, and try to practice in the classroom.

You can also write us your questions about this story in the comments section, or on our Facebook page.

Give question-asking a try, and let us know how it works for you!

I'm John Russell.

John Russell wrote this lesson for Learning English.

Hai Do was the editor.

We want to hear from you.

Write to us in the Comments Section or on our Facebook page.
